>> Maximiliano Firtman: So let's make
a recap of ES6 again the version that most
of you may be already comfortable with,
but these were the basic ideas.
So it was one of the major upgrades for
the language since
the beginning of the language.
I would argue it's safe to use it on every
browser today, IE11, out of the equation.
It included the class syntax for OOP, so
to create classes using the class keyword,
blocks code variable definitions,
let and const mainly, ES modules, okay?
I will do a quick recap in a sec of ES
modules, arrow functions, promises,
something that we will cover later today,
and many more features.
Some small features, some other
advanced features such as generators or
regular expression additions that were
actually the first time that people coming
from Java or C#, were not complaining so
much about JavaScript, okay?
On ES5, when they realized there was
no way to create a class with the class
syntax, they were really like annoyed
like, what the hell is this, okay?
Well with ES6, okay, we have class,
okay, class extends, okay?
So, we will leave some advance ES6
topics for later, organized by topics,
okay, but I will cover now
the quick recap of modules and
the basic stuff so we can set that
as a base for what's new after ES6.
That's probably the most important for
today's workshop.
So let's talk about modules.
It's a standardized way to organize and
reuse JavaScript code
across different files.
Because before modules, we were using
different files in the browser at least,
we were using different files, but
everything was kind of
a mess in a global context.
And now we can import, you can use
import and export statements for
better modularity and maintainability in
fact, it's a design pattern to create.
There is a design pattern
of creating modules for
different things,
it can be per topic, modules for
section, modules per architecture
patterns, and so on.
So instead of creating one
large JavaScript file, or
a lot of JavaScript files that are all
going to the same bag of variables,
objects, and functions,
now we can create modules.
So for example, typically on classic HTML,
if you have two JavaScripts,
JavaScripts in your HTML you
can access every variable and
every function of every script from any
other script, even from the main HTML.
So if you have some JavaScript here,
you can actually read and
access all the functions
defined on every script, and
also from script 1 to script 2 and
vice versa, okay?
Everything was going to the same bag.
So, they use the same global context,
and one script can't include or
load other scripts that
was another problem, okay?
From one script, you cannot specify
dependencies I'm talking about before ES6,
I'm talking about standard classic
browser JavaScript development.
The worker is an exception, and
I'm not sure if you have played with
web workers or service workers.
We do have an import scripts,
function that was added for
the worker spec only.
So we cannot modularize behavior or
data and Node.js,
had to implement its own pattern known as
the common JS pattern to emulate modules.
The require function and
then module.exports on the other side was
a way to emulate modules before
they were available in ECMAScript.
So that's why If you have two scripts,
you can call from a script 1 print user,
even if it was defined on
script 2 on another file.
And you can also use variables
defined in the other scripts which
may be good sometimes, but
when you have a large code base, and
you have a team of developers working on
the same project, it's a mess, right?
So we don't want that.
So that's why we have now ES modules,
that, I mean, they are from ES6,
but they have been improved over
the versions as small improvements,
we will see those improvements later.
So, in this case, every module work as a
container isolated from the global object.
The global object is different
per platform so for example,
if you're doing client side application
for the browser is a Window option.
If you're doing workers, Web Workers,
Service Workers is the self option,
if you're using Node.js,
is the global option.
Well, in this case, a module has its
own separate, isolated context.
So for Node, ES modules are today
living together with CommonJS,
so you can match a mix if you want
between CommonJS and ES modules.
Each module works in
a separate file in the browser
it's normal ".js" file, for Node.js,
it's the ".mjs" by default,
you can change that.
And there is the global scope,
it doesn't matter if it's Node.js or
the browser or the service worker,
creates a module import tree as soon,
as it's parsing JavaScript, and the
modules, I will show you that in a second.
So, that means that it will import,
by default on ECMAScript 6,
all the files statically at that moment.
When it's parsing the project,
it says okay, I'm loading all the modules,
all the JS files that I need.
A module can export items,
variables, functions,
class declarations, objects,
values, anything you wanna export,
and also it can have one default export
import, that you define in a file.
So you can export as many as you want,
or one that's gonna be the default one.
And any module can import other
modules items, totally or
partially, so
I will show you some examples.
And you should check on every platform,
how to enable modules
because remember ECMAScript is
always backwards compatible and
before ES6, we didn't have modules.
So that means that by default,
even on modern ECMAScript,
these days modules should
be disabled by default for
backward compatibility, unless you say
somehow, I wanna use modules okay?
So for example, in the window context for
standard client side applications,
we use type module in the scripting.
That will load app.js using modules, and
then it can create an import
module tree from there.
But if you don't add the type module,
you cannot import or export within app.js.
In a worker, when you create a worker,
you need to specify
explicitly that,
that worker will use modules because for
backward compatibility by default,
we don't have modules.
When you create a service worker,
when you register a service worker,
you also specify type module.
For node.js, there are three
ways to use modules in node.js.
One is to just use the .mjs extension,
that I know that
some of you may dislike,
because sounds weird, right?
That mjs extension sounds weird, it was
a big discussion in a Node community.
So but they say hey, for
compatibility reasons,
we cannot just leave it with .js,
but if you want to use .js,
you can say so by adding a flag
when you're running your script,
or by adding a metadata
in your package.json.
You will say, hey,
you know what in the whole project
I wanna use modules,
this is not a ES5 project.
So this is ES6 with modules project, so
then it's going to take your .JS
files as modules by default.
So with modules then,
now the HTML can include the Script 1,
and Script 1 by itself, can also say,
hey, I wanna import Script 2.
And now, if you have a variable or
a function in Script 2,
it's not available by
default anywhere else.
It's only available in
the isolated Script 2 context,
unless Script 2 is exporting that.
In this case, so
Script 1 can import that variable or
that function,
which makes our code cleaner, okay?
And when you have a large code base,
this is pretty good.
So that means that now the same example,
as we saw before, is not actually working.
You cannot access printUser or
the user variable from Script 1,
because it's in a different module.
Unless we export those
references from a Script 2,
and then we import those
references in Script 1, okay?
Make sense?
Pretty straightforward, okay?
And also, you can use default export.
So instead of exporting
each file individually or
each component individually,
you can do a default export and
in this case I'm exporting actually,
I'm not sure if you recognize this syntax.
If not,
it's something that we will see in a
second because it's also an ES6 addition.
It has to do with object addition,
this is actually JSON,
doesn't look like actually it's
not really JSON compatible.
It's an object syntax,
that is creating a new object with
a property user that has the value user,
with a property printUser
that has the value printUser.
So it's an object that then I'm receiving
that object from the other side,
and I can set a name for that object,
and then I can use an API,
same Services.printUser, yeah.
>> Student: I see in Script 1,
it's import capital "S" services and
I normally think of that as class.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah, that's
a design pattern let's say, a guideline.
>> Student: Okay.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That sometimes,
but actually there
are different ways to do this.
And in the community there,
I don't think for this particular case,
there is no single answer.
If you should use title case or
lower case for the object, but
it's been used a lot via title case.
When you are importing an object,
you treat it like a select an API,
like if it's a module.
So it's like a module name,
think about that it's an object, okay?
It's an object, so it should be
lowercase from that point of view, so
it's an object.
But it's the object that has
everything from other module.
So it's kind of our module entry
point that's why a lot of developers,
and I kind of like that idea, are
capitalizing the name of that option, but
it's up to you, or up to your team,
up to your guideline, okay?
Make sense?
>> Student: The default import,
default exports syntax
doesn't enforce pascal case.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: No, in JavaScript,
there is no
enforcement in case of naming.
So you can name that
dollar sign if you want.
So you can say import dollar
sign from Script 2 or
underscore because those are value
identifiers, makes sense?
When importing from module, this is
important if you're coming from React,
from Angular, if you're using Babel.
When importing from modules,
the path must start with http or
https, /, ./,
or ../, so if not, it's not gonna work.
And you need to remember to think in URLs,
not in files.
Which means, for example, you always
need to say, when you're importing here,
for example, okay, I'm saying ./,
and I'm saying .JS.
If you're using Babel,
because it's a transpiler maybe
you're not used to add the .JS is
not gonna work in the browser,
because the browser works with URLs.
The browser, if you don't add .js,
the browser will make an HTTP request
to the server to a Script 2
without .js and probably that's a 404.
Does it make sense?
So when you're using ES modules,
and you are not using a transpiler,
that can add some
advantages to your code.
You always need to work with public URLs,
which means you shouldn't
use short hands or
ways to shorten the URL,
such as not adding the file extension.
Because it's no gonna work.